# Breaking Down the Biznass Process

This post will be a bit different that other posts that I have made. This one we will talk about how to break down a business process in such away that you should be able to take it down to its smallest components and begin the work to automate all the things. The goal of this post is to describe my thought process that I take when looking to automate some process, weither its a new deployment of some digital service or just triggering some already defined process to occur. That way people who are not in the automation game, as you could call it, can see the thought process someone who is in the game goes through every time they are looking to automate something.
 
## Definitions

Before we jump into things lets first out line an example that we can use to give you a better visualization of what we are looking to automate. So lets set the stage here a bit and outline some assumptions, first the process we are looking to automate for this example is already digital. Not to say that all processes that you can automate have to be digital this post just wont cover the digitalzation of things as thats wayyy to open ended for me to cover in a single post. Second what we are looking to automate is a new deployment or instance of an already digital thing or process. 

## Inputs

The first that I think about is inputs required to preform the process. This takes many different forms but first we must ask ourselves `What are the inputs required to preform this process?`. If we look at a new service deployment we need to break down the minimal required inputs that a user must input for the deployment to be created. So we are deploying a new instance of service X and we know that we need a few things off the bat without thinking. The first few would be `Name`, `Location`, and `Size`, these first few things are typically the well known variances in a deployment. Everything needs a unique name, how unqiue the name is depends on your naming scheme. In todays age we are likely not just deploying this instance locally but into some "Cloud" as its now called, which is really just someone elses datacenter. As such we need to define what location or "cloud availability zone" we are deploying to, this allows for the automation to know where it should put the thing. Size is something that you may or may not have to deal with. If your application is a one size fits all type of thing or auto scaling based on load this wont really matter but often types you break down your application into `t-shirt` sizes to know things like what teir of support a customer would get. 

Along with those basic things we have to start thinking about all the various different ways the applicaiton can be customized _and_ how it is licensed, user count? t-shirt size? etc... To an automation engineer these things are all still just inputs but they dictate what additional logic might need to be added to the deployment process to be able to repeatbly deploy the correct type of instance. So when you are breaking down these things you really need to have a good understanding of all the possible variables that can differenciate one deployment from another. After you have all of these things written down somewhere you then have the `What` defined of the process. 

## The Why?

The Why? What does he mean by this? Well when I break things down I tend to think in the terms of `What`, `Why`, and `How`? Our inputs are the _what_ we need to take in so the _why_ is where we start to think about why we need specific inputs. Well im going to skip the obvious things and move on to how I think about simplifying things. First I like to take a trip down documentation lane and start reading thought what, if any documenation or code I have available. This is how I start to think about how things can be simplified, can I get some inputs from an api call instead of a user input? Can I pull specific inputs to limit what a customer might have to input? These are the things that im thinking about when looking to simplify things. 

## The How?

After we have simplifed things down to the fewest number of inputs that are required, we can then start to think about the how. Right now the hot thing seems to be `terraform` for deploying things in a highly repeatable manner. Often times though we do not have the luxery to have a prebuilt `terraform` provider available to us for our custom service or business process. With that in mind there is a lot of good patterns that we can take from how `terraform` deploys things.

* Go interface, these are so powerful they almost deserve their own post. However to touch breifly this allows us to statically define _exactly_ what our objects can look like. If they dont fit into these objects they are not real and we cannot work with them. 
* The concept of `state`, this refers to reading from some _interface_ to tell us what the state of the world. Without this information available in a programatic fashion we cannot acess what needs to be completed in order to ensure we have done the correct thing.

If we take these concepts and further expound upon them we could take the concept of these _interfaces_ as what a human might see as a task list or GUI. Where a human would need some type of trigger to know when to take a given action, automation needs the same thing. However how automation gets that information can be seen as a _black box_. This is usually due to people just simply not understanding what all is going on or what htey are seeing. The _robot_ here needs to be able to "load a gui", aka make an HTTP GET request to uptain the _state of the world_. While a human might see that as some graphics on a screen a machine just needs the information in a standard format that it knows how to parse. Generally when you are using HTTP based _interfaces_ that format is known as `JSON` and is a standard message format for most if not all modern network based API's.

In a similar fashion as getting the _state of the world_ our automation would look to create things in a very similar fashion. However instead of requesting some information it would be telling our _interface_ what it would like to have created. To a human that is "What form do I fill out to get something created or kick off a process?", for machines its not much different. However the automation has to know how to handle _any_ error that might occur and how to react to it. Where as a human is able to dynamically react to the error/s in their inputs, automation has to be told how to react. This brings us back to the importance of simplifying our inputs, cause if we can do this we can limit the scope of the amount of errors the automation has to be able to handle. 

## Conclusion

Automating a business process is really just as easy as fully understanding the business process as a human. When it comes to actually building out the automation to complete something like this it is extermely important that a developer work closly with a user or someone who is specifically trained in the process for them to be able to have access to an expert in the process. Otherwise a developer coming in fresh to automate something has to learn from the ground up what the process is and how to complete it. Otherwise you are just going to get exactly what something is on paper which may or may not be the most efficent way to complete a process.  
